All right, so we're gonna just
get started right away and
I want you to do these following steps.
We need to make a directory where
we're gonna put everything.
I'm gonna choose the name JPEG degens
because that just feels like just
the right level, of what I wanna call
this so I'm gonna call it JPEG degens.
Just go into the directory and
then we're going get init, yarn init,
and then we're add hardhat.
So you can do these however
you want to do these.
I'm just gonna copy this,
paste those all in, and there we go.
And now remember, whenever you're working
with a project that involves Node.
One of the things that you know you're
doing right is when you use a lot of
libraries.
So the bigger our library project or
the the bigger our Node modules folder
becomes, the more we're winning.
So just remember that,
right now we've added some things.
But I feel like we could have added more.
This is kinda a weak attempt
at our very first addition.
And so once you get these three
things in here, you have inited git,
you have yarn going,
you have added hardhat.
We need to execute hardhat.
If you're not familiar with npx,
it's like a co-utility with NPM
that came out not too long ago.
Where it just effectively
adds to your path,
the bin folder inside your Node modules.
So you're able to call into the things
that you've just NPM installed.
It's a nice little module so it also helps
prevent people globally installing things.
All right, is everyone here?
Has everyone made it to this point?
Awesome, so let's go and let's create
an empty hardhat config dot JavaScript.
Yes, dot, JavaScript, the lessor
of the friendly TypeScript nature.
All right, so the typical structure
of smart contracts follows this.
It's gonna have a contracts folder.
This is where you're gonna
put all your solidity code.
It's gonna have a scripts folder.
This is where you put all
your deployment code.
And then it's gonna have a test folder.
And this is where you
put all your test code.
You really do wanna try to keep this,
this kinda seems to be a standard.
And Hardhat does some auto assuming,
like if you run, compile,
it's gonna go through your contract folder
and compile each one of the files and
pull out all the different
contracts you have named in there.
Second, if you run npx hardhat test,
it's gonna go to your test folder and
run through that.
So it is kind of important
to keep the structure.
The scripts thing, you could
probably rename it to what you want.
But that just seems to be kinda
convention more than anything else.
And HardHat is the tool we're gonna
be using for building and deploying.
It adds a lot of really nice features
to a third party library called ethers.
And it just makes life easy.
So we're just gonna be
using that the whole time.
There's some other ones,
there's truffle and stuff, but
I find HardHat to be kind of
the completest solution out of them all.
And I also really like testing,
I don't know about you but
since I get everything first try
I usually don't need testing.
But I do testing cuz I wanna show everyone
how important it really should be if you
don't first try all the things.
And lastly of course don't forget
the gitignore because honestly
a gitignore is very important and
put in Node modules, right?
You definitely want that in there or
else your life will be hellish
if you try to open up stuff.
All right, so
the first thing we're gonna do is we're
gonna create the HelloWorld contract.
It is a .sol, no it does not mean
shit out of luck, it means Solidity,
which is the programming
language of Aetherium.
And so
we're gonna create a contracts folder and
we're gonna create a file
called helloworld.sol.
You can call the file whatever you want,
the file name has no meaning or
bearing on how it gets compiled.
As long as it ends with .sol that's
the only thing you really need to do.
So let's go back here,
create a nice folder called contracts,
go into here, create HelloWorld.sol.
It's kinda Java convention, right?
You just name the file after
the primary item inside of it.
And the very first thing you're gonna do
when you do a Solidity contract is you
need to tell the compiler or you need to
tell Solidity, what compiler you expect.
And so they do this pragma statement.
Now for anyone that did some C++ and
Windows era,
the pragma is kinda, it feels like
some sorta pre compiler step.
That's effectively how I look at it so
I just say hey pragma solidity 080.
I expect at least that compiler level,
we're gonna put this at the top
of every one of our contracts.
So you don't really have to understand
what it's doing other than it's kinda
like a package dot JSON.
It's just specifying which
version we want to use.
After that we're gonna
go contract HelloWorld.
So you can probably make
a quick analogy right away that
a contract looks a lot like a class,
right?
And really that's how it operates,
honestly.
It's gonna be simply a state container
with some functions to mutate it.
So it's effectively a class and it even
does contain some classlike semantics.
It has a constructor that will be executed
only upon deploying to the network once.
So every time you deploy your contract,
that constructor gets executed one time.
So it does feel very analogous to classes,
but we're not even gonna do that.
We're gonna type in function hello, and
we're gonna do public, pure, returns,
string memory, return HelloWorld.
Now anyone that's familiar with
programming understands every single
thing about what I've typed except for
the word pure and memory.
Those two things are probably
your only questions you have.
We will get to those,
those things will be answered.
But it's good just to understand that,
right?
I assume everybody understands that this
is a function hanging off the HelloWorld
contract.
Anyone can call it, it returns a string,
and that's the string that it returns.
These two, we'll just put a pin in it,
as that one guy said in that movie Bolt,
all right?
So now that we have that,
we have finished our first contract.
Pretty awesome, right?
So I have a little link if anyone
just wants to copy and paste it,
you can do it right there.
We're gonna compile the contract now.
So open up a new terminal, and
you can go npx hardhat compile and
by doing that it's gonna
compile your contract.
But first it's gonna do some resolving,
and
it's gonna make sure it has
some information, apparently.
I just realized that I'm executing
it in the wrong folder, jpg degens,
I forgot to do that, there we go.
And now npx hardhat compile.
I wanted to make that mistake for you and
you'll immediately get
this error probably.
Now it's gonna say something along
the lines of solidity version pragma
statement in these files do not
match any configured compilers.
Why is that?
Well, it's actually pretty simple.
If you go to your hardhat.config,
you'll notice that your hardhat.config,
which is the thing that drives
your hardhat experience.
Specifies 073, so you get to specify
the exact compiler you want in hardhat.
But your contracts get to
specify what they want to use.
So we can't compile because we've
only specified a single version.
So we're gonna actually do this,
we're gonna specify 810.
That's the latest version.
Unfortunately, the versions of Solidity
don't really respect semantic versioning.
They added features and
they removed features in four to five.
But they never do a major version
update when they completely remove API.
So just remember every minor
version could be a surprise and
you lose things, just as a warning,
it's a little unfortunate.
So now if we go back and we compile,
we will compile with a single warning.
Well, technically two warnings, but
you don't have to worry about that one.
The thing that you can worry about
later is that we didn't put a license
identifier.
Technically, the first line of any
code should be a license identifier.
I don't think that that's gonna really
give you much right now for today.
But we will copy this, go back here,
open up our nice HelloWorld.
And I can just put this in here and
put in MIT, right, there we go.
And if I were to go back here and
compile, it goes away.
Does that really help us today, no.
So we're gonna always have that
warning every single time.
Not a big deal.